# Simulation data and analysis scripts

### Introduction

This directory contains julia code for generating random rate constants and simulating their behavior in both short term (transient) and steady state (asymptote) regimes. Code for running and analyzing the results of these simulations is provided, along with the data generated by the simulations performed in the study. This is used for Figure 5 in the manuscript and SI section 6.

### Asymptote data

Asymptote data (end steady state) for the stochastic simulations. Each file contains data from 10_000 simulations, each row representing one simulation. Columns are steady state concentrations (M) for each species. 

Files are named according to the parameters used:
*correlation type*_*bias*_*edge cor*.csv

The following correlation types were simulated: `basin`, `c3`,`parallel`, `twobasin-inv`, `twobasin-uc`, and `total`.

Each simulation was run with either no bias or a selectivity bias equivalent to 0.5 kcal/mol in the direction of correlation (towards "allose").

Each simulation was run with edge correlations of 0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8. A correlation of 0.8 was used for the data presented in Figure 5 of the manuscript.

### Transient data

This file contains one csv file with 10_000 rows, each row representing one set of rate constants. Columns are titled (start_tracked) according to the start species and tracked species, where the data point is the maximum for tracked species over the course of a simulation that starts with the 'start' species.

### run_asymptote.jl

This file runs asymptote simulations and saves the results to csv files. By default this runs 10_000 simulations. This script can be run in the terminal with the following command (in this case using 128 threads):

```bash
julia --threads 128 run_asymptote.jl
```

### asymptote-process.jl

This file processes the asymptote simulations. This script will print the processed asymptote probabilities to the console. By default these probabilities compare to a selectivity threshold of 0.5. This script can be run in the terminal with the following command:

```bash
julia asymptote-process.jl
```

### run_transient.jl

This file runs transient simulations and saves the results to csv files. By default this runs 10_000 simulations. This script can be run in the terminal with the following command (in this case using 128 threads):

```bash
julia --threads 128 run_transient.jl
```

### transient-process.jl

This file processes the transient simulations. This script will print the processed transient probabilities to the console. By default these probabilities compare to a selectivity threshold of 0.5. The script will also generate a histogram graph of transient probabilities sorted by edit distance. This script can be run in the terminal with the following command:

```bash
julia transient-process.jl
```